.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\"
.\" mailer.8 is copyright 1999-2001 by
.\" Jordi Mallach <jordi@debian.org>
.\" This is free documentation, see the latest version of the GNU General
.\" Public License for copying conditions. There is NO warranty.
.TH MAILER 8 "June 03, 2004" john
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.SH NAME
mailer \- script to warn users about their weak passwords
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mailer
\fIpassword-files\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page documents briefly the
.B mailer
command, which is part of the john package.
This manual page was written for the Debian GNU/Linux distribution
because the original program does not have a manual page.
\fBjohn\fP, better known as John the Ripper, is a tool to find weak
passwords of users in a server.
.br
The \fBmailer\fP tool is useful to inform users which have been found to
be using weak passwords by mail.
.P
You should edit the message mailer will send to the users, but remember to
copy the script to a safe place before editing it, as it's
generally a bad idea to modify things living in /usr.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR john (8),
.BR unafs (8),
.BR unique (8),
.BR unshadow (8).
.PP
The programs are documented fully by John's documentation,
which should be available in \fI/usr/share/doc/john\fP or other
location, depending on your system.
.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was written by Jordi Mallach <jordi@debian.org>,
for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).
.br
John the Ripper and mailer were written by Solar Designer
<solar@openwall.com>. The complete list of contributors can be found in
the CREDITS file in the documentation directory.
