.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\"
.\" unshadow.8 is copyright 1999-2001 by
.\" Jordi Mallach <jordi@debian.org>
.\" This is free documentation, see the latest version of the GNU General
.\" Public License for copying conditions. There is NO warranty.
.TH UNSHADOW 8 "June 03, 2004" john
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.SH NAME
unshadow \- combines passwd and shadow files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B unshadow
\fIpassword-file shadow-file\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page documents briefly the
.B unshadow
command, which is part of the john package.
This manual page was written for the Debian GNU/Linux distribution
because the original program does not have a manual page.
\fBjohn\fP, better known as John the Ripper, is a tool to find weak
passwords of users in a server.
.PP 
The \fBunshadow\fP tool combines the passwd and shadow files so John can
use them. You might need this since if you only used your shadow file, the
GECOS information wouldn't be used by the "single crack" mode, and also you
wouldn't be able to use the '\-shells' option. On a normal system you'll need
to run unshadow as root to be able to read the shadow file.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR john (8),
.BR mailer (8),
.BR unafs (8),
.BR unique (8).
.PP
The programs are documented fully by John's documentation,
which should be available in \fI/usr/share/doc/john\fP or other
location, depending on your system.
.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was written by Jordi Mallach <jordi@debian.org>,
for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).
.br
John the Ripper and mailer were written by Solar Designer
<solar@openwall.com>. The complete list of contributors can be found in
the CREDITS file in the documentation directory.
